PowerMan version 1.0.19                                       18 Sep 2003

+--------------+
| New Features |
+--------------+

o Telnet protocol is now fully supported.  There is a telnet option processor 
  which filters telnet escapes out of the device control stream and manages 
  some trivial option negotiation.  Literal telnet escape sequences have been 
  removed from device configurations.

o Devices specified in powerman.conf now should combine the host and port
  in the hostname field, e.g. "hostname:port".  What was the port field is
  now "flags" reserved for future use.  If a ":port" is not found in the
  hostname field, the port is taken from the flags field and a warning about
  deprecated usage is emitted to stdout.

o The powerman.conf "device" entry now determines whether a device is directly
  connected to a serial port or available via the network, thus serial RPC's
  can either be directly connected or connected through a terminal server
  and still use the same device scripts.

o In the powerman.conf, if the plug name is omitted from node lines in the 
  config file, the node name is used as the plug name.

o Several changes to device script language (non backwards compatable):
  - To make it possible to support devices that have variable numbers of plugs
    PowerMan scripts can now utilize a "foreachplug" or "foreachnode" construct 
    to iterate over the configured plugs or plugs that have configured nodes for
    a device, executing an inner block of script on each iteration.  These
    constructs also reduce repetition in scripts with a fixed number of plugs.
  - For devices that have only a command to toggle power, PowerMan now supports
    the conditionals "ifon" and "ifoff" which will execute a subblock of script
    if the plug is on or off respectively.
  - Instead of repeating 'plug name "name"' statements, all the plug names
    can now be specified on one line, e.g. 'plug name { "name" "name" ... }.
    The 'plug name' line is also now optional, in which case there will be 
    no checking of plug names specified on node lines in the config file.
  - The plugcount line is no longer necessary (or allowed).
  - The name line is no longer necessary; device names are specified between
    "specification" and the open brace for the device specification.
  - The "map" command was renamed to "setplugstate" and there can now be
    intervening statements between an "expect" and "setplugstate" lines.  
    Subexpression match lines persist until the next "expect" in the script.
  - The "setplugstate" command can now take either subexpression number for 
    the plug name parameter or a literal plug name (quoted string).
  - The "onstring" and "offstring" constructs are replaced with off="regex"/
    on="regex" arguments to "setplugstate".
  - Devices no longer have a "type".  This is deduced from the "hostname"
    field for the device in the powerman.conf.  If it starts with a slash
    it is treated as a special file, otherwise tcp.  Telnet mode is always
    on even for serial devices, which should be harmless.

o Support added for Rackable Systems Phantom Remote Management Module.

o Support added for Baytech RPC-28-30NC remote power controller.

o Support added for Baytech RPC-3 remote power controller with "NC" style
  firwmare interface.

o Support added for IPMI on Intel SE7501WV2 motherboard (terminal mode only)

o Support added for Cyclades PM8i remote power controller.

+------------+
| Bugs fixed |
+------------+

o Increased power cycle time to 2 seconds on all power controllers.  The
  ICE box previous value of 0.7 sec caused problems on some nodes.

o Serial connections were made non-blocking (blocking in an open would
  hang powermand).

o Workaround for getaddrinfo bug in glibc-2.3.2-27.9 that caused client
  core dumps under RedHat 9.

o Exponential backoff-retry is enforced for script failures (was just
  connection attempts).

+-----------------+
| Supported RPC's |
+-----------------+

PowerMan development and testing takes place on the following RPC devices:

o Linux NetworX ICE Box version 2 (V2.2-LLNL B208) (*)

o Linux NetworX ICE Box version 3 (V3.0 B70) (*)

o Baytech RPC-3 (Revision F 5.00 and F 5.01) (*)

o Baytech RPC-3-20NC (F4.00) (*)

o Baytech RPC-28-30NC (*)

o WTI NPS (v3.02) (*)

o WTI RPS-10 (*)

o APC MasterSwitch Plus (APP v2.0.0 / AOS v2.5.4)

o APC MasterSwitch Plus (APP v2.2.0 / AOS v3.0.3) (*)

o Rackable Systems Phantom Remote Management Module (v3.0.4b) (*)

o IPMI 1.5 on Intel SE7501WV2 motherboard in terminal mode

o Cyclades PM8i s/w v. 1.0.9a

Notes:
(*) In use on LLNL equipment
